Photo: Einar Aslaksen
Home>Sustainability>Just transition
Equinor’s commitment
to a
just energy transition
As part of the company’s strategy and our Energy
Transition Plan, Equinor sets the ambitions and
actions for how to reduce emissions, build a
renewable energy portfolio and develop low
carbon solutions. For Equinor, how we do business isSearch EN Menu
as important as what we do. We are committed to
contributing to a transition that is just and inclusive
and brings about long-term social and economic
beneﬁts.
Since Equinor was ﬁrst established 50 years ago, as the then
Norwegian State Oil Company, we have played a key role in
building a strong energy industry in Norway, as well as
investing to develop the energy sector in other regions around
the world. We aim to become a leading company in the energy
transition and to have a positive impact on the societies in
which we operate. This is reﬂected in our purpose: “to turn
natural resources into energy for people and progress for
society”.
Moving towards a low-carbon future is a big and complex task.
With an evolving geopolitical situation, societies around the
world are looking afresh at how to ﬁnd the best balance
between energy security, energy affordability, and energy
sustainability. Equinor will supply the energy needed today,
while simultaneously investing in and shaping the renewable
and low-carbon systems of tomorrow.
The energy transition brings up many dilemmas and trade-offs.
It will require the development of new technologies, new value
chains, and new ways of working, as well as ﬁrm leadership
from policy makers. To ensure that the transition is just,
governments must act with foresight and collaboration, and
ensure that the beneﬁts of the transition are shared across the
societies we operate in.
A common agendaEnergy transition plan 2025Search EN
Equinor is committed to play a key role in the energy transition.
To achieve a just energy transition, we must engage in
dialogue and collaboration with all our key stakeholders – our
workforce, supply chain, partners, industrial customers and
local communities.
Our priority is to avoid or minimise any negative impacts of our
business. Our high focus on safety, environmental
management and business integrity is a testament to this
commitment. But, in face of climate change, nature loss, and
rising inequality challenges, we need to go further.
At Equinor, we are guided by Paris Agreement, the
International Labour Organization, and the United Nations
Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. For a
transition to be just, it should build on respect for human rights
and integrity.
Inspired by the Council for Inclusive Capitalism, our Just
Transition approach has ﬁve main areas of focus:
Respecting human rights
Our commitment to respecting the rights of people
affected by our business stays ﬁrm and at the coreSearch EN
of our just transition approach. We will continue to
further develop and reﬁne our human right agenda
based on our own experiences as well as learning
from good practices by others – focusing on
achieving positive outcomes for people.
Our ongoing efforts to respect human rights seek to prioritize
the parts of our activity entailing greatest risks– including to
labour rights within our supply chains. For the higher-risk
activities, we have procedures for early engagement and
continuous follow-up embedded in our project and supply
chain processes. Our aim is that workers involved in our
activities should have decent living and working conditions and
earn a living wage. However, we recognise that we, together
with our suppliers and business partners, need to step up
efforts in this regard. Tackling what often is systemic issues
requires broader collaborations with both government and
private actors, building on international standards and mutual
openness.
As we accelerate our growth in renewables and develop low-
carbon solutions, more of our operations will be onshore
facing new challenges. Listening to the voice of our neighbours
and ensuring a respectful and sustainable coexistence is
essential, whether onshore or offshore.
Search EN
Promoting transparency
and advocacy
To be a leading company in the energy transition,
Equinor must be trusted and respected.
Transparency in what we do and how we do our business is
crucial to build trust. We see transparency as a cornerstone of
good governance, allowing our decisions to be scrutinised,
promoting accountability, and enabling our business to
prosper. We also see it as a prerequisite for an open and
direct dialogue with stakeholders.
Our approach to ﬁnancial transparency includes reporting
contributions to public ﬁnances , and we promote industry
initiatives aimed at strengthening revenues and tax payment
transparency. We are committed to transparency on
emissions, environmental and social performance. We continue
to develop our disclosures in this regard, including through
annual reports and our sustainability data hub, and by making
environmental and social impact assessments publicly
available.
We partner with institutions that will advocate for an equitable
transition, such as the World Business Council for Sustainable
Development’s Business Commission to Tackle Inequality. We
will continue to maximise the existing strong collaboration with
trade unions and employee representative groups globally,
focusing on initiatives that delivers tangible outcomes where
change needs to happen.Search EN
Preparing people for
the future of work
The energy transition will have an impact on the
type of jobs we provide and the skills we need, and
we are scaling up to meet the challenge.
Our aim is to provide opportunities for existing employees, to
attract people from different backgrounds, and to grow the
next generation of talent. So, we will continue to invest in
upskilling through formal learning, on-the-job training, and
partnerships with educational institutions.
We value the views of all employees and will continue to seek
opportunities to hear their voices - including through formal
surveys, and more informal employee networks and forums for
engagement.
And, of course, we will continue to promote a culture of
diversity, equality, and inclusion throughout our worldwide
operations.Search EN
Enabling sustainable supply chains
Equinor has a global supply chain of more than
8,000 direct suppliers. The way we select and work
with our suppliers represents an opportunity to
inﬂuence industry standards and bring progress to
society.
Thriving domestic supply chains are important for regional
economic development and for us, as we deliver new projects
and invest in long-term infrastructure that will be operational
for decades. Working with our suppliers and industrial
customers to transition together will enable safe and
sustainable projects.
The shift to a more resource-efficient, circular economy is an
opportunity across our activities - for example, in the
decommissioning of offshore facilities and wind turbines, and
by ensuring sustainable use of materials and components in
our different value chains.Search EN
Bringing resilience
to local communities
Being a partner to our host communities is
important to ensure our long-term relationship and
the success of our activities. We believe that we can
bring a range of positive beneﬁts to the societies
where we operate, when these are pursued in
collaboration. Due to our global presence, we
cannot adopt a one size ﬁts all approach, and
understanding the needs of local communities,
including how we tackle inequality in speciﬁc
contexts, is important.
We will continue to support education initiatives and invest in
skills building to develop future-ﬁt workforces, and we aim to
empower marginalised or underrepresented groups.
We support humanitarian efforts and will explore solutions to
support access to energy for vulnerable groups - which, in
turn, can address inequalities in health, education, andSearch EN
employment. We also invest in local nature conservation and
restoration projects.
Examples and case studies: A
Just Energy Transition in practice.
Getting to a net zero society by collaborating
closely with our stakeholders is a priority for
Equinor. We have highlighted some cases below.
Explore
Investors
Careers
SustainabilityConnect
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
LinkedIn
YoutubeSite
Privacy policy
Cookie policy
Accessibility statement
Terms and conditions
Site infoTo topH2H Saltend – More than a net zero industrial region
Community-driven development of the offshore wind
industry in New York
Diversity and inclusion – Our core values in actionSearch EN
Contact us
Copyright 2025 Equinor ASASearch EN
