Health, safety and security
Home>Sustainability>Health, safety and security
Safety: Our vision is zero harm
The safety and security of our people, and integrity
of our operations, is our top priority. We believe
that all accidents related to people, environment
and assets can be prevented.
We focus on preventing personal injuries, work related illness
and major accidents, and the goal of zero harm has becomeSearch ENNO Menu
part of how we think and work, with a strong focus on
continuous improvement.
Jannicke Nilsson
Executive vice president safety, security and sustainability
We wish to learn as much as possible from incidents
0.23
SIF, serious incident frequency, at the
end of the third quarter of 2025 (12-
month average)
2.1
TRIF, total recordable incident frequency,
at the end of the third quarter of 2025
(12-month average)
4Search ENNO
Oil & gas leakages, total at the end of the
third quarter of 2025 (last 12 months)
Equinor’s third
quarter 2025 safety
results
At the end of the third quarter
of 2025, the serious incident
frequency per million hours
worked (SIF) was 0.23, down
from 0.27 in the second quarter.
Serious incident
performance management
We have clear and ﬁrm expectations to record and
follow up all incidents. To identify and mitigate root
causes, the most serious incidents are always
investigated to ensure learning.
News article about our third
quarter 2025 safety resultsSearch ENNO
The Serious Incident Frequency (SIF) indicator measures the
number of actual and potential unintentional serious incidents
per million working hours. The Total Recordable Injury
Frequency (TRIF) indicator measures the number of fatalities,
lost-time injuries, and medical treatment injuries per million
working hours.
Our focus areas
In Equinor, we aim to continuously develop a
proactive culture where safety and security are
incorporated into everything we do.
We are committed to having a proactive safety culture to
prevent major accidents. It starts at top-level leadership and
requires commitment and capabilities throughout the
organization. Our approach is founded on the Human and
Organizational Principles (HOP).
Our strategic focus on being “Always safe” is guided by our
commitment to prevent harm to people, to the environment
and the communities we are a part of.
Safety, security and sustainability are at the very core of
everything we do. Our strategy – safe operation, high value
creation and low carbon emissions – means in practice that
we, as a broad energy company, must deliver long-term valueRead our sustainabiity report here
Sustainability in EquinorSearch ENNO
creation in the transition to the low-carbon society of the
future.
A key component in this work is being long-term committed to
a few main priority areas. We have deﬁned companywide
priorities to ensure harmonization and an aligned approach to
our strategy.
The “Annual wheel” deﬁnes priority topics and associated
actions to ensure a stronger common focus on main
challenges. We share our main topics with the industry. The
main quarterly topics are major accident prevention,
personnel injuries, line of ﬁre, and health/working environment.
Learning and follow-up after incidents is key to enhance
safety and security culture and working closely with our peers
and suppliers is crucial to our overall performance.
Industry collaboration
The purpose of collaboration is to strengthen the industry’s
safety and security culture and work together towards zero
major accidents and avoid injuries and undesirable incidents in
our daily work.
An arena for sharing and learning from events and to facilitate
stronger collaboration was established in 2020. The initiative is
called “Always safe”.
We have agreed upon following the “Lifesaving rules” and to
prioritise the same measures in the “Annual Wheel”.
“Always Safe” website
Life-saving rules websiteSearch ENNO
Health and working environment
A good working environment is essential to
employee well-being and health, operational safety,
and organizational success. An inclusive, safe, and
engaging working environment is an attractive
place to work and develop, and a source for
collaborative and creative energy. Proactive
management of health and working environment
risks are therefore important to protect our people
from harmful exposure, physically as well as
mentally.
Security
In Equinor, security is an organisational capability
that enables corporate objectives by safeguarding
our people, assets and operations.
Good security begins with the behaviour and actions of each
and every one of us – how we think and act each day at work
or at home. By being aware of, and thinking through, our daily
routines and actions, all employees contribute to our own and
Equinor’s security.
We emphasise that security is everybody’s responsibility. We
all have to understand the risks we face, and act to ensure we
are secure. Leaders are accountable for protecting our
people and business by continuously identifying,
understanding and acting to reduce security risks. All
employees play a role in being vigilant, complying with securitySearch ENNO
requirements at all times, and reporting incidents and
concerns.
The ability to keep our people, assets and operations secure
from malicious threats is a key factor in maintaining our licence
to operate and being a successful business. Failure to meet
security expectations could result in injury to our people,
damage to our facilities, loss of production or information, or in
the worst case, loss of life.
As a company, we are faced with complex security threats –
across cyber, physical and personnel disciplines. A security
policy within the management system provides guidance in the
approach, commitment and how we work with holistic security
risk management.
Physical security
Physical security measures are designed to safeguard
personnel, prevent unauthorised access to facilities,
equipment, and documents; and to safeguard against
eavesdropping, sabotage, damage, and theft.
Cyber and information security
Cyber and information security is the process of protecting the
conﬁdentiality, integrity and availability of information. We
have a risk-based approach to cyber and information security
focusing on people, process and technology.
Personnel security
Personnel security protects against those who exploit their
legitimate access to our assets for unauthorized purposes.Search ENNO
Crisis and business
continuity management
Equinor is prepared to respond to hazards, incidents, and
major security threats to prevent or reduce loss, damage,
injuries or other consequences to people, the environment and
assets, production and operations, information, ﬁnancial
assets and the group's reputation.
Our business continuity management is focusing on the
medium- and long-term consequences and derived actions to
Equinor’s capability to ensure continuity and ﬂow assurance
when a business disruptive situation occurs.
The Corporate Security and Crisis Management unit is
responsible for setting strategic direction and maintaining
Equinor’s corporate framework on crisis and business
continuity management.
We have company-wide management systems that describe
protocols and response governance for emergency response
and business continuity management. Our management
systems incorporate industry good practices, Equinor
requirements, national requirements and ISO standards.
The management systems set requirements for conducting
analysis, how to develop and design response plans and for
implementing the emergency response plans.
The response organisations train and exercise frequently and
are evaluated on a regular basis.Security policy - English
Security policy - NorwegianSearch ENNO
A global incident management assist team that consists of
highly competent and specially trained personnel from all over
the company is ready to assist and support in emergency
response situations all over the world.
Cyber Security
Incident Response
Team (CSIRT)
Equinor protects information
created by us, or given to us, to
ensure appropriate
conﬁdentiality and integrity.
Therefore, the security of our
information systems is of
paramount importance to us.
Our values
Our values embody the spirit and energy of Equinor
at its best. They help us set direction, and they
guide our decisions, actions and the way we
More on CSIRT and Responsible
Disclosure PolicySearch ENNO
interact with others. Our values express the ideals
we strive to live up to every day.
Our leaders are expected to drive the development of a
strong safety culture founded on our values and our facilities
must be well maintained at all times and procedures for safe
operations must be in place.
We focus on preventing personal injuries, work related illness
and major accidents, and the goal of zero injuries has become
part of how we think and work, with a strong focus on
continuous improvement.
At Equinor, how we deliver is just as important as what we
deliver.
Our emergency
response organisationThe Equinor bookSearch ENNO
Our emergency response organisation is always in
a state of readiness, around the clock, 365 days a
year. The response structure consists of Crisis
Management, Incident Management and
Emergency Response.
If an incident occurs, we will adhere to the PEAR principle —
People, Environment, Asset and Reputation.
Crisis Management Team (CMT) — Strategic Level
The CMT has a strategic function and implements necessary
strategic actions to minimise consequences for the company,
and maintains contact with corporate management,
customers and stakeholders.
Incident Management Team (IMT) – Operational
level
The IMT Provides operational guidance to the ERT and
coordinate resources and personnel. Responsible for Oil Spill
Response and handling of personnel.
Emergency Response Team (ERT) – Tactical level
The Emergency Response Team on the accident site conducts
rescue and response, on-scene combating and cooperates
with the local rescue services.
Emergency preparedness and response communications
Media relations teamSearch ENNO
Deﬁnitions
Serious incident frequency (SIF)
Actual SIF
Total recordable injury frequency (TRIF)
Oil & gas leakages
Explore
Investors
Careers
SustainabilityConnect
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
LinkedIn
YoutubeSite
Privacy policy
Cookie policy
Accessibility statement
Terms and conditions
Site info
Contact usTo top
Copyright 2025 Equinor ASASearch ENNO
