Home>Sustainability>Human rights
Human rights
Our policy Our priority areasOur approach to
due diligenceSearch ENNO Menu
ReportingThe Norwegian
Transparency ActRaise a concern
Respecting human rights is essential for our license
to operate as a company and this fundamental
principle has been embedded in Equinor’s
corporate values, code of conduct and human
rights policy for many years.
Additionally, respect for human rights is considered
foundational for the health and safety of people involved in
our business, establishing reliable supply chains, and realising
a just energy transition. Our human rights efforts are a journey
where we strive for continuous improvement in our
performance and behaviour.
Various aspects of Equinor’s business can have potential
negative impacts on people. Aware of this, we are committed
to risk-based human rightsdue diligence to prevent such
impacts where possible, and to facilitate or participate in
remediation processes when they do occur as outlined in the
UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights (UNGPs)
and the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises.
Our human rights policy
Respect for human rights is embedded in our human rights
policy, last updated and adopted by Equinor’s board of
directors in 2024. The human rights policy is further
operationalised through multiple internal work requirements
and processes. Aware that many of our potential human rightsSearch ENNO
impacts lie within our supply chain, we have additionally
developed a human rights expectations of suppliers document.
Our priority areas
Below are the four priority areas, also known as
salient issues, that guide our ongoing human rights
due diligence.
Unsafe working conditions
Working to respect safe, healthy and secure working
conditions in our operations and supply chain.Human rights policy
Human rights policy (Norwegian)
Human rights policy (Portuguese)
Human rights expectations of suppliersSearch ENNO
Unethical recruitment of migrant workers in the
supply chain
Working to respect ethical recruitment of migrant workers
within the supply chain, including addressing the prevalence of
recruitment fees, deception, document retention and
restrictions to freedom of movement.
Wage-theft and excessive working hours in the
supply chain
Working to respect that workers in the supply chain are paid
what they are entitled to, including addressing wage
withholding and managing fatigue and work-life balance.
Adverse impacts on local communities and
indigenous peoples resulting from the use of land
Working to respect affected communities in proximity to our
operations, including preventing and mitigating impacts on
local resources, indigenous rights, economic displacement and
physical displacement resulting from land use.
Our approach to risk-based
human rights due diligence
Identiﬁcation of impactsSearch ENNO
We aim to implement human rights due diligence
systematically to be aware of the potential human rights
impacts connected to our activities. Such impacts are
identiﬁed and assessed throughout various processes, which
can range from informal information gathering to formal
grievance mechanisms.
Importantly, a human rights lens has been imbedded in our key
corporate processes, including our supply chain management
framework, business development framework, and enterprise
risk management framework.
Prioritisation and response
Responding to impacts in our supply chain
Responding to community-related impactsSearch ENNO
Governance
Collaboration
Reporting
We believe in open and transparent reporting of our actual
human rights impacts and signiﬁcant risks based on our most
current information as disclosed in our annual report. This
includes how we:
Embed responsible business conduct into our policies
and governance
Identify and assess actual and potential adverse human
rights impacts
Implement risk based due diligence to cease, prevent or
mitigate adverse impacts, including recent disclosures
based on actual impacts
Track our actions and measure our progress
Report and communicate externally
Provide for/cooperate in remediationSearch ENNO
See our annual reporting by clicking the link below, including
our UK Modern Slavery Statements and our statements in
accordance with the Norwegian Transparency Act.
The Norwegian Transparency Act
We welcomed the introduction of the Norwegian
Transparency Act in 2022, including its clearly deﬁned duties
for companies like ours to carry out risk-based human rights
due diligence, report on our due diligence, and respond to
stakeholder information requests. We consider our human
rights due diligence framework to be in line with the
international standards that form the basis for the Act.
Since 2024, following the incorporation of the EU Corporate
Sustainability Reporting Directive (CSRD) into the Norwegian
Accounting Act, our statement of due diligence according to
the requirements of the Norwegian Transparency Act
(Åpenhetsloven) §5 has been placed within our annual report.
Please refer to the section “Norwegian Transparency Act –
Statement of due diligence” for a detailed mapping of where
human rights-related information, as stipulated in the Act, can
be found within the wider report.
According to the Norwegian Transparency Act, upon written
request any person has the right to information from an
enterprise regarding how the enterprise addresses actual and
potential adverse impacts for human rights and decent
working conditions (see Act § 6 and 7  for more
information).Sustainability reports archiveSearch ENNO
Should you have an enquiry related to how Equinor addresses
actual and potential adverse impacts on fundamental human
rights and decent working conditions,
please send us a request here.
Raise a concern
We continuously encourage and
remind our employees and any
external third party that
interacts with us, to raise
concerns or report any
suspected or potential breach
of law or company policies.
Explore
Investors
Careers
SustainabilityConnect
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
LinkedIn
YoutubeSite
Privacy policy
Cookie policy
Accessibility statement
Terms and conditions
Site info
Contact usTo top
Contact the Ethics HelplineSearch ENNO
Copyright 2025 Equinor ASASearch ENNO
