Home>Sustainability>Energy Perspectives
Energy Perspectives
2025
Global macroeconomic
and energy market outlook
About this report: Energy Perspectives is an
independent energy scenario analysis prepared
annually by Equinor analysts in macroeconomics,
energy markets and geopolitics.Search ENNO Menu
6 June, 2025: Presentation by Eirik Wærness, chief economist.
Video: Holi AS, Norway, for Equinor
Energy Perspectives 2025 presents four scenarios for the
future world economy, international energy markets and
energy-related greenhouse gas emissions.
The scenarios are not predictions, but possible contrasting
pathways, providing a platform for debate, strategic planning
and decision-making.
Three of the four scenarios, Walls, Plazas and Silos, are
forecast scenarios that contrast the slow pace of energy
transition observed with the rapid changes needed to meet
the 1.5°C ambition of the Paris Agreement.Energy Perspectives 2025 Energy Perspectives 2025Search ENNO
Anders Opedal
President and CEO
The insights and analysis provided by Energy
Perspectives help us navigate short-term
uncertainties without losing sight of long-term trends.
Shifting global markets
and geopolitics in 2025
Long-term outlooks of the development in global energy
markets are normally very difficult. As this year's Energy
Perspectives report is published, they are even more so, as
global markets and geopolitics are undergoing massive shifts
with unpredictable short- and long-term consequences.
Political priorities affecting global energy markets are shifting
further away from decarbonisation towards energy
affordability and security of energy supply. On top of this, theRead the press release on Energy Perspectives 2025 (5
June)
All downloads for Energy Perspectives 2025Search ENNO
short-term impact of trade conﬂicts and new rules of the game
in geopolitics is almost impossible to gauge.
Eirik Wærness
Senior vice president and Chief economist
The geopolitical landscape and trade conﬂicts
illustrate clearly that the global cooperation needed
for a Paris-aligned energy transition is not present.
The Energy Trilemma is the
challenge of balancing three
core dimensions of energy
sustainability. energy security,
energy equity (affordability and
access), and environmental
sustainability (decarbonisation).
Source: World Energy Council.
Read more about Equinor’s
commitment to a just energy
transitionSearch ENNO
Key insights from Energy
Perspectives 2025
Energy Perspectives presents four scenarios for
economic and energy market development:
*The Bridges scenario as outlined in the 2023 outlook.
Walls
Walls builds on historical energy market
trends and assumes climate action
slowly accelerates.
Bridges*
Bridges EP23 is a normative backcast
scenario that demonstrates the immense
change needed to stay within the 1.5°C
carbon budget.Search ENNO
Plazas
Plazas explores a world where open trade
and cross-border investment enable
higher economic growth more
consumption and affordable energy.
Silos
Silos considers a fragmented world where
restricted global trade and a lack
of collaboration hinder growth and
shape consumption around energy
security concerns.
Some of our key ﬁndings:
The balance of priorities within the energy transition will
inﬂuence global energy demand, energy mix and
ultimately emissions.
Total primary energy demand is impacted by both
economic growth and the evolving energy system.
Peak demand for fossil fuels arrives towards the end of
the 2020s in Walls and Silos, but comes later in Plazas.Search ENNO
Efficiency improvements lead to net reductions in energy
use by 2050 in some sectors.
Liquids demand is weakened by EVs but grows in the
petrochemical and non-road transport sectors.
Global gas demand is highly sensitive to trade
restrictions and energy interdependence.
While gas and liquids are both traded globally, gas
demand is more sensitive as it is impacted by electricity
demand and can be more easily substituted with other
energy sources.
Electricity will meet a higher share of ﬁnal energy use.
The key enabler of the energy transition is growth in
decarbonised electricity.
Electric vehicles become increasingly affordable and
available, but their uptake depends on climate policy,
trade restrictions, and consumer spending.
Find more detail about these and other issues by downloading
the full report, available below.
This year’s insights
Energy Perspectives 2025
Press releases
Energy Perspectives 2025 press release (English)Search ENNO
Downloads
Previous Energy
Perspectives reports
Here you can ﬁnd our archive of previous
editions of Energy Perspectives.
Explore Connect SiteTo topEnergy Perspectives 2025 press release (Norwegian)
Energy Perspectives 2025
Energy Perspectives 2025 launch presentation
Energy Perspectives 2025 key insights
Energy Perspectives 2025 extended data ﬁle
(Excel)
Energy Perspectives archiveSearch ENNO
Investors
Careers
SustainabilityFacebook
Twitter
Instagram
LinkedIn
YoutubePrivacy policy
Cookie policy
Accessibility statement
Terms and conditions
Site info
Contact us
Copyright 2025 Equinor ASASearch ENNO
