Governance
and transparency
Home>Sustainability>Governance and transparency
Embedding sustainability in governance and risk
management
At Equinor, our approach to sustainability is
embedded in how we work. Our sustainability
priorities – building a low-carbon advantage,
ensuring responsible operations, protecting the
environment and creating shared value – are
closely linked with our three strategic pillars.Search ENNO Menu
How we work to ensure an integrated approach to
sustainability, is reﬂected in our corporate governance
principles, performance and reward framework and
management system. These elements are described in
the Equinor book, available via the link below.
Low carbon
Always safe
High value
GovernanceThe Equinor bookSearch ENNO
At Equinor, the Board of Directors (BoD) and
Corporate Executive Committee review, monitor
and discuss safety, security and sustainability issues
and risks on a regular basis, while the Chief
Executive Officer (CEO) is responsible for the day-
to-day management of these areas.
Board of directors
The safety, sustainability and ethics committee (SSEC)
The compensation and executive development
committee (BCC)
The audit committee (BAC)
Corporate functions responsible for sustainability-related
issues include:
The safety, security, and sustainability function
The people and organisation function
The legal and compliance function
These functions are responsible for setting strategic direction,
give advice and report on risk and performance within the
topics to the Corporate Executive Committee and the BoD,
including relevant committees.
The business line is accountable for executing the company’s
sustainability ambitions and for managing relevant risks and
performance.Search ENNO
Risk and impact management
Management of sustainability-related risks,
including climate-related risks, is embedded in our
enterprise risk management process.
We regularly identify, evaluate and manage risks to create
sustainable value and avoid incidents. Our enterprise risk
assessment and related actions are reviewed biannually by
the corporate executive committee and the BoD.
We perform impact assessment everywhere we operate to
ensure the best possible overall risk management process. We
do this based on national requirements in the countries we
operate, and guidance as set out in international standards
such as the International Finance Corporation (IFC)
Standards.
Want to know more about how we assess the impact of our
work?Corporate governance
Impact assessmentsSearch ENNO
Performance framework
At Equinor, safety, security and sustainability are
embedded into our performance and reward
framework. The reward framework is an integrated
part of our values-based performance culture and
has been designed to contribute to the business
strategy, long-term interests and sustainability of
the company.
Management of sustainability performance is integrated in
strategy, business planning, risk management, decision-making
and management follow-up processes. Our performance
framework translates our vision, values and strategy into
action and results, creating clear links to team and individual
contributions. We measure progress and results in a holistic
way, using key performance indicators such as the following
when relevant:
Serious incident frequency (SIF)
Total recordable injury frequency (TRIF)
Oil/gas leakages
CO intensity (upstream)
Tax and transparency
We believe that responsible and ethical behaviour
is a prerequisite for sustainable business. We have
zero tolerance for corruption and all Equinor
personnel are expected to adhere to our policy and2Search ENNO
familiarise themselves with the Code of Conduct
through a conﬁrmation statement.
Our code is based on our values and reﬂects our commitment
to high ethical standards in our business activities. We look for
business partners with similar values and ethical standards to
ours, and we work with our suppliers to ensure integrity
throughout our value chain.
Transparency is a cornerstone of good governance and is vital
in the combat of corruption. We are committed to conducting
our business activities in an open and transparent manner,
promoting transparency in our industry and supporting efforts
to improve openness and accountability to combat corruption
worldwide. Transparency allows businesses to prosper in a
predictable environment, contributes to a level playing ﬁeld
and enables citizens to hold governments accountable. Our
business generates signiﬁcant revenues in the societies where
we operate, and transparency is vital to ensure that the wealth
derived from the energy we produce is put to effective and
equitable use.
Open is one of our four company values. We were among the
ﬁrst major oil and gas companies to voluntarily start disclosing
all revenues and payments to governments in the countries
where we operate. We are a signatory to the anti-corruption
initiative Call to Action by the United Nations Global Compact,
an appeal by the private sector to governments to address
corruption and enhance good governance.
In addition to our revenue transparency disclosures, we aim to
be open about other aspects of our sustainability
performance. Our climate advocacy position is publicly
available, and we are disclosing both our ambitions and goals,
as well as annual performance in our efforts to combat climate
change.
Equinor’s approach to tax
Equinor is committed to be a responsible corporate citizen
world-wide. We will execute tax compliance and planning in aSearch ENNO
professional manner, aligned with good business practice.
Transparency in tax payments is vital to ensuring that the
revenues derived from our operations is put to effective and
equitable use, as it enables citizens to hold governments
accountable for the payments they receive. An important
principle is that Equinor will pay taxes where legally due and
where the economic value is generated. Artiﬁcial transactions
with no connections to our business activities will never be
pursued.
Payments to governments
Equinor was among the ﬁrst major oil and gas companies that
voluntarily disclosed payments to governments. We have
welcomed initiatives to strengthen revenue transparency
legislation and actively shared our experience with peer
companies, governments and civil society. For Equinor, it is
important that revenue transparency regulation applies
globally, is effective, and creates a levelled playing ﬁeld for all
companies, communities and governments.
As now required by Norwegian legislation, we disclose
payments to governments pertaining to our extractive
activities per project in a separate report. In order to provide
context, the report also contains information on investments,
revenues, purchases of goods and services and production
volumes per country, in addition to a full list of subsidiaries and
information about inter-company interest expenses.
The Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative
(EITI)
We have supported the Extractive Industries Transparency
Initiative (EITI) since its inception, and we respect and promote
the EITI principles. The EITI is a global standard to promote
open and accountable management of oil, gas and mineral
resources. It is supported by coalition of governments,
companies, civil society groups, investors and international
organisations.
The EITI has evolved from payment disclosures into providingSearch ENNO
context and use of revenue data. In the 2023 EITI Standard ,
new contracts awarded by governments from 2021 must be
made public.
Equinor has made public its position that we support and will
advocate for the public disclosure by host countries of their
petroleum contracts and licenses. We also support efforts to
improve beneﬁcial ownership transparency and have a policy
stating that Equinor will not voluntarily enter into partnerships
with anonymously owned companies. More information about
the EITI, including individual country reports are available at
www.eiti.orgSearch ENNO
Related pagesPayments to
governments
report 2024Payments to
governments
report 2024
Payments to
governments
report 2023Payments to
governments
report 2023
Payments to
governments
report 2022Payments to
governments
report 2022
Payments to
governments
report 2021Payments to
Governments
report 2020
Payments to
Governments
report 2019Payments to
Governments
report 2018
Payments to
Governments
report 2017Equinor group
tax strategy
document
Code of conduct
Board of directors Governing bodies
About us Annual reports archiveSearch ENNO
Explore
Investors
Careers
SustainabilityConnect
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
LinkedIn
YoutubeSite
Privacy policy
Cookie policy
Accessibility statement
Terms and conditions
Site info
Contact usTo top
Copyright 2025 Equinor ASASearch ENNO
